Welcome back.
So the past two videos on list methods have been somewhat organized around a central topic.
The first one was about methods that add to a list.
The second one was about methods that delete things from a list.
This one is a bit more of a hodgepodge.
So we're covering just kind of it's what's left over and putting them into a video.
So we're going to go through each of these pretty quickly they're not as commonly used as things like
deleting and inserting into a list.
The first one is called index and index allows us to do is actually find the index the position of a
given item instead of a list.
So here's a list of numbers and if I ran it numbers index 6 it would tell me where 6 occurs in this
list.
So 0 1 and so if we get 1 or index of nine I get 0 1 2 3 4 is where 9 is.
And we get 4.
It also allows us to specify a start and end.
So if we looked for 5 first and this numbers list we have some duplicates 5 5 6 7 5 8 8 9 10.
If I just do numbers index of 5 it gives me the first time the first place it finds 5 which is zero.
But I can also provide a start point.
So this is basically saying find the index of 5 after the index have one and it's inclusive.
So 0 1 and it starts looking for 5 from here and what do you know the first thing it finds is five.
So it gives us one but if we do five and then a starting index of 2 0 1 2.
So it starts right here and it looks for five.
So it's not it to set three no four.
And so it gives us index of four.
And then finally we can do a start and end index.
So in this case we're looking for eight between the index of 6 and 8.
So 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 and find 8 right there.
It's kind of complicated.
We're talking about numbers and indexes and they're both numbers.
But in this case the returns 6 because it's at the index of six and it didn't include this one which
said which is that the index 5 because it's not between 6 and 8.
All right.
So just a quick demo we could do names dot index.
And if I did Colt it gives me 0.
But then if I said anything after even if I said after 1 it would give me four which is right here 0
1 2 3 4.
So that's index.
Next up we'll talk about count count is nice and straightforward.
It accepts a single input and it outputs the number of times that the input occurs in the list so here
we have a list with a couple of duplicate.
And if I ask how many times is to occur.
Count two goes through and it finds one to three and it tells me three if I try and count 21 it's not
there.
So I get zero.
And if I try and count three it's in there two times as we can see and not to count.
So let's do a quick demo.
Here we have names and I can do a count for colt which is in there twice.
I can do that count for Salina which is only in there once or I could do dog count for Jared which is
not in there.
I should also mention if we try and do index.
So hopping back.
Just a quick second of something that doesn't exist like Jared.
It gives us an error.
So Jared is not in the list count unlike index doesn't throw an error.
It just gives us zero because the count is zero.
Right.
After that we have reverse.
So what reverse will do.
It's also nice and easy it just reverses the order of the list in place.
So meaning that it doesn't make a new list it doesn't duplicate it.
And then reverse one copy and keep the original list in regular order.
It updates the list that you're calling the method on.
So first list is 1 2 3 4 and we call DOT reverse on it.
It reverses the list so we don't actually see anything when we run first let's start reverse.
Nothing is returned.
But then if we look at first list it's reversed.
So let's see we have names.
Starts with and ends with Pablo.
If I do names dot reverse and I need the parentheses it doesn't look like anything happened.
But if I look at names it's reversed.
Now we get publicity and a cold lead and so on the next method We'll take a look at is sort we're going
to cover this briefly because later on we'll get into quite a bit of detail once we understand topics
like custom functions and lambdas.
But for now we can invoke or execute the sort function on the list and basically we don't put anything
in.
So we don't provide any input.
Eventually we will be.
And it will just sort things in ascending order.
So here we have 6 4 1 2 5.
I call sort and just like reverse it takes place in place it sorts in place meaning that another list
is sorted.
And if we look at another list it's now in ascending order.
So I promised later on we will be spending time with customizing sport and being able to set up her
own custom way of sorting depending on how we want things to work not just ascending and descending
but actually depending on more complex data structures that we're trying to sort.
But for now we just need to be aware that it exists and let's try running it now on names names that
sort.
So this is with strings rather than numbers.
And if we look at sort's things ascending alphabetically and if we appended two names that append Aryeh
with all caps just like that.
And we look at names and now we do names that sort and look at names again.
You can see that the capital area comes before the lower case area.
So that brings us to the final method.
We'll take a look at which is called join and join is actually different than all the other ones we've
seen so far.
Because it is not a list method.
It's actually a string method.
So it's the same idea where we have to do dot join but we're calling it on a string not a list.
But the reason it's in this video is that it's really commonly used to convert lists to strings.
So it takes an input a list like this one.
Coding is fun three items and it joins them join words and whatever the string is that we we call join
on will actually be put in between every item in the list.
So we end up with coding space because we have a space here is space fun or here's another example.
If we had a list with Mr. Steele and we do period space.
Join name which is this we end up with Mr. Period space still and if we had another or something after
Steele we would also have another period space that element.
So it's converted to a string.
The result is a string.
So I realized this is bizarre compared to what we've been looking at so far.
But it is technically a string method and it takes a list or another iterable argument which we haven't
covered all of them and it joins them together a concatenates them by putting the base string whatever
we're calling join on and shoving it in between each item of the list or iterable.
But in our case it's a list and it returns a new string commonly used to make sentences out of a list
of words.
For example using a space.
So let's check it out.
We have names again here if we wanted to join all of them together.
We could do something like I am friends with and then period dot join names.
And this isn't going to work perfectly because you'll see what happens if we get Aryeh.
I am friends with Aryeh.
I'm friends with blue.
So the first time around it doesn't quite work but the main idea.
Let's try that again if we look at names by the way it's unchanged.
It's still a list.
This just returns a string.
So let's join them on comma's.
So make a variable called friends all set it equal to the string with a comma and a space Dadds join
names.
So this will take all the names and put a comma and a space between all of them and turn it into one
giant string.
And if we look at friends now because I stored in a variable we get Aryeh comma Aryeh come blue come
a cold cold cold.
Perfect.
And so then we could use that somewhere.
The key idea is that it takes a list it turns it into a string.
It's a string method but it's commonly used with lists.
So leave it at that.
Everything else we saw in this video.
And up until now in this section has been a list method.
They work on a list so we you know we do names dot something.
In this case we're doing a string dot something.
It's the same idea but one is for this one just for strings.
All right.
So we've covered a lot of ground with all of these methods.
This video in particular like I said is kind of a diverse mix of all sorts of different methods but
hopefully you can see how some of these would be useful.